since October 7th meeting after meeting
and yet nothing the UN Security Council
has done or said has been able to stop
Israel's war on Gaza a few examples back
on October 30th an emergency meeting a
call to Halt the fighting when the death
toll was
8,000 the resolution presented today
does not reflect the real situation on
the ground it is since soared to five
times that on May 24th
the council meets to pass a resolution
condemning the killing of un staff and
Aid
workers the draft resolution demands
that parties to conflict uphold their
obligations since then another 15 un
Personnel killed and more humanitarian
workers as well and on May 29th the
council meets after Israel's strikes at
camp in Rafa sparking fires killing
dozens we are heartbroken and horrified
since then more strikes by Israel More
Death this is the 24th special session
um that has been called on Palestine
since October 7th 24 sessions yet very
little that the security Council has
actually been able to do that's
significant and it's something that will
continue to hurt and undermine the
legitimacy of the security Council you
know far past when ceasefire does uh is
is reached in Gaza do you think there's
any
takeaways from what the security Council
has not been able to do I think one of
the biggest takeaways which many member
states have been shouting from the
rooftops is a need for reform of the
security Council we're in a situation
where the Security Council is clearly
not working to maintain International
Peace and security as it was mandated to
do Riyad mansur palestine's ambassador
to the UN says the council and member
states have the tools to hold Israel to
account there are many things that they
can do if they have the political will
to act journalists report about it
diplomats listen to it that is the power
of the security Council and the hope is
eventually there will be the political
will to end Israel's war on Gaza
something so far the council has failed
to do Gabriel zando Al jaaz at the
United Nations in New
York make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer